Some of the electronic information that had been translated and provided for the brothers in Sub-Taharan Africa was essentially unavailable to them.
There are many areas in Mozambique that do not have internet access, and in some parts there is no cell phone coverage.
So we started investigating what it would take to have a 24-hour day, 7-day-a-week satellite channel dedicated to JW Broadcasting.
When the announcement was made to a congregation about the JW satellite channel, our brothers and sisters were very happy about the announcement.
Our organization has a lot of experience distributing video via the internet, but to distribute it on the satellite was entirely new, so we had to do a lot of research.
We don't have our own satellite up in space. We ran a channel on a satellite that covers Sub-Saharan Africa. When do much?
What is required from the brothers is to have a satellite dish and a decoder. This will allow them to view the channel with no additional cost.
So the brothers would either come to the branch or at an hour or two, or have to reach a depot to see the dish.
The brothers that are invited to come here are trained. First, how to set up the dish? Second, how to set up the decoder and learn how to adjust the dish properly so that it works well.
Then we teach them how to record the programs, with the goal that they can watch it with the brothers and sisters in the congregation.
Our satellite channel is set up to transmit one video track and 16 audio tracks. This gives us the ability to broadcast our videos in 16 languages.
We consulted with the translation services department, and so these are the 16 languages that give us the greatest audience of our brothers in Africa.
We wrote new software that takes any new video that comes to JW Broadcasting and mixes the 16 languages of video together into a single video file and delivers that to our satellite provider.
The governing body lovingly approved for the rental cost of the satellite channel to be covered from contributions to the worldwide work.
So there's no expense to the brothers in Africa to receive the programs.
We broadcast over a single satellite channel for most of our needs, but occasionally we use a second channel when we broadcast live events like conventions or branch visits.
When the representative of World Headquarters gives his talk from Bethel, it is transmitted to us live through the satellite. This makes us feel like we are right there at Bethel. We are very happy.
The most recent live event that we broadcast originated in France. It was the release of the revised edition of the New World Translations. This was very exciting.
And brothers and sisters that attended conventions in 10 different branch territories in Africa were able to tie into this broadcast that originated in France using the satellite.
In our branch territory, we were arranging for all new or remodel Kingdom halls to have satellite equipment as part of the standard audio video package.
We were very happy when we received the satellite dish because we could see that now we are really close to the brothers on the governing body.
The satellite channel is excellent. This provision touches our hearts.
Deaf all over the country benefited from the special talk as it was interpreted in Malawi sign language, showing that Jehovah truly loves deaf people.
And this helps us strengthen our relationship with Jehovah.
Our congregation is in our refugee camp. As a refugee you can miss many things, physical things I mean. We don't miss any spiritual food.
We hope and pray that access to the JW satellite feed becomes available to as many of our brothers and sisters as possible in sub-Saharan Africa.
This is a very loving arrangement from the fifth and discreet slave because it enables millions in Africa to benefit from the satellite arrangement, to receive the food from the fifthless slave at the right time, at the right location, in the right language, what an amazing arrangement from the fifthless slave.